---
layout: post
title:  "How I Got Here"
date:   2017-03-08 20:31:20 +0000
---


When I was in high school, (1979-1983), a friend and I would come in early to use the two new computers that were available.  We taught ourselves the bare rudiments of a simple language called, appropriately enough, BASIC.  We figured out how to print out simple things to the terminal and even got fancy with a subroutine or two. The thrill died pretty quickly, however, and it wasn't until I was in my senior year of college (1986-1987) that I again had access to computers.  The college library had some early Macintosh stations which I used exclusively to type papers.  As a comparative literature major, I had a lot of papers to write, and the advent of word processing was almost miraculous.  Few if any of you will remember the frustration of using actual typewriters (to be fair electric, but still).  Using white-out, or simply typing the correct letter over a mis-typed one several times to block it out was a common way to deal with typos.  It was not infrequent that one would simply tear out the sheet of paper and start retyping the whole thing.

With computer-based word processing, suddenly I was freed from having to meticulously plot out every paragraph before actually writing it.  I could just sit down at the keyboard and let my fingers fly, easily going back to revise, re-order or completely rewrite sentences, paragraphs, and whole sections.  What a relief!

Skipping way ahead, after a couple of other paths (I learned American Sign Language and re-experienced 2nd grade as an interpreter, I went to graduate school and read the Odyssey in ancient Greek, I spent four years earning a doctoral degree in natural medicine) I became a high-school science teacher, working with 10th-12th graders in one of the toughest neighborhoods in the South Bronx, teaching biology, chemistry, and a little physics.  About two-and-a-half years ago, during summer break, I saw an ad for a coding bootcamp.  I became fascinated with the idea of devoting a concentrated period of time to learning to code.  I loved solving puzzles and I loved building things, so it seemed like it might be a pleasant way to spend the summer.  I'm not sure why, but I also thought that it was a free class.  When I looked further into the program, it didn't take long for me to realize that I had the wrong idea.  This was not something that could be done "in my spare time" as a lark.  This was for people who were seriously dedicated to developing a new set of skills and changing careers.  Plus it cost a significant amount of money.  Instead, I spent the summer catching up on my old love of literature and spent a lot of time in Central Park.  But in the back of my mind, I kept the idea of learning to code.

Then, about a year ago, a new principal took over the school where I had taught for 8-and-1/2 years.  Unfortunately, he quickly destroyed the supportive culture that my colleagues and I had built over that time.  Morale plummeted among both the teachers and students, and an already very difficult job became impossible.  By the end of the school year, 22 out of 25 teachers left.  I was one of them.  At this inflection point, I thought it might be time to make another big change. And again, I thought about the coding bootcamp pathway.  This time, I knew what a major investment in time, energy and money it would require, so I knew that I would have to be pretty sure that it was something that I wanted to do.

To check it out I signed up for an online EdX course from MIT on Programming and Computational Thinking using Python.  I learned some basic programming, some stuff about algorithms, and a lot about the frustrations that came from a misplaced comma.  I really loved it.  I found that I would sit down to work on a problem set and when I next looked up, five hours had passed.  We've heard about the 'flow' state a couple of times before, and this is what I was experiencing.  While I was taking that class, I attended a couple of events at bootcamps, and when I finished I moved on to the Bootcamp Prep curriculum from Flatiron on Learn.co.  I worked through both the javaScript and the Ruby sections and continued to enjoy it all the way through.  On the day I finished the last lab in the curriculum, I decided to apply.  Now, a little more than four weeks into the program, I can hardly believe how much I've learned, and I have a much better idea of how much more I have to learn.  And I still am amazed at how fast time flies by when I'm sitting there engaged with solving the puzzle of finding a way to make my computer do what I want it to do just by using the right words and symbols in the right order.


